---
layout: post
title: Source-available vs Open source
---


For the following questions, prepare for your answers.
Update your second blog post file in your repository to render your content for this assignment.

## 1. Source-available vs open source.

__What is meant by “source-available” licenses?__

Open Source Software is distributed under licenses that comply with the Open Source Definition, granting users the freedom to use, modify, and redistribute the software with minimal restrictions. Source-Available Software provides access to source code but typically imposes more restrictions, such as limitations on commercial use, distribution, or creation of derivative works, which do not conform to the Open Source Definition.
That is, Simply, source-available has the following restrictions in some cases, unlike open source:
- You can change and compile the source code, but you cannot use it for personal purposes
- You cannot redistribute it to others under the same license terms, regardless of whether you change it
- You often cannot use the software in a specific way
- You cannot use it for commercial purposes

__Find some examples of licenses that are “source available”, but don’t meet the “OSI Open Source Definition ”. What clauses do they violate?__
- The Open Source Definition. https://opensource.org/osd

Source-available License Example:
1.	Elastic License 2.0 (ELv2): Prohibits redistribution of the software and modified derivative works. Prohibits free reuse and modification. (violation of Articles 1 and 3 of the Open Source Definition)
2.	Commons Clause: Source code access is available, but sales are restricted and commercial use is not possible. (violation of Article 1 and Article 6 of the Open Source Definition)


## 2. Artificial Intelligence software

__What does the OpenRAILs license try to do? See Hugging Face reading above (Section 6.1).__

The OpenRAIL license is not open source because it imposes certain restrictions on the use of AI. It places restrictions on the development and use of ML by clearly distinguishing between the potential social costs of harmful use of AI and the promotion of widespread access and use of ML.

__Would OSI judge that license to be “open source”? Which provisions, if any, might it violate?__
-	OpenRAIL: Towards open and responsible AI licensing frameworks. https://huggingface.co/blog/open_rail

OpenRAIL can be seen as violating Articles 5 and 6 of the Open Source Definition because it discriminates based on the user's purpose and specific field, such as prohibiting the creation of hate speech or sexual content (specific purposes) or prohibiting use in certain research fields such as military or political.